Plasticity Essentials
Outliner
Outliner
The Outliner displays all the objects you've created. Within the Outliner, you can organize objects, group them, toggle their states, and configure materials.
Displayed Objects
The objects you create are classified into different sections: "Solids," "Sheets," "Curves," "Meshes," "Images" and "Measurements."
Displayed Construction Planes
Saved
construction planes
are classified into "Planes" and are listed in the "Added Planes" menu in the right side of the screen.
Organize Objects
Right-click on a section label ("Solids," "Sheets," "Curves," "Meshes," "Images" and "Measurements") and choose "Select all" to select all objects within that section.
You can reorganize the Outliner by dragging and dropping objects.
Group Objects
Grouping allows you to better organize your objects.
Operation
Shortcut
Command Name
Create a group and move the selected object to the new group.
Ctrl + G
or
Group Selected
Remove the selected object from the group.
Alt + G
Ungroup Selected
Right-click on a group folder to access related commands.
Menu
Note
Add current selection to group
Adds the selected object to the group.
Select all
Selects all objects within the group.
New subgroup with current selection
Creates a new subgroup and adds the selected object to it.
Move selected items to root
Relocate selected item from a group to the root directory.
Expand all
Expands all groups.
Collapse all
Collapses all groups.
Add material
Assigns material to the group. See
Material Color
.
Remove material
Removes material from the group. See
Material Color
.
Dissolve
Removes the group folder while keeping the objects inside intact.
Delete recursively
Removes the group folder and all objects contained within it.
Alt-click on folder in outliner to select all objects in that section.
Collapse and Expand Groups
To collapse all groups, either click (1)  or hover your cursor over the Outliner and press
C
.
To expand all groups, click (2) and select "Expand all" from the dropdown menu.
Rename Objects
To rename an object, double-click on its name.
To rename multiple objects at once, hold down the Shift key while selecting them, and then, while still holding Shift, double-click on one of their names.
Locate Objects in the Outliner
To bring a selected object to the top of the Outliner
Select object in the 3D viewport, hover your cursor over the Outliner, and press
/
.
Alternatively, select the object and click (2) and choose "Scroll to selection."
To isolate a selected object in the Outliner
Select the object in the Outliner and press
.
. This will collapse all groups and sections except for the one containing your selected object.
Alternatively, select the object and click (2) and choose "Isolate selection."
Toggle Object States
You can toggle the states of objects or groups, such as making them temporarily hidden or visible, disabled or enabled, and locked or unlocked.
Operations in the Outliner
Click on the icons next to objects or groups to change their states. You can also change states in bulk by selecting multiple objects.
: Toggle hide
: Toggle disable
: Toggle lock
Operations by shortcut
You can also use shortcuts to change the states of objects or groups.
Operation
Shortcut
Command Name
Hide selected objects
H
Hide selected
Hide unselected objects
Shift + H
Hide unselected
Unhide all
Alt + H
Unhide all
Invert Hidden
Ctrl + H
Invert Hidden
Hide all Curves on the same plane
Select Regions ->
H
Lock selected objects
Lock selected
Material Color
You can assign materials to Solids, Sheets, and Curves. Materials set for a group will also be applied to objects within that group.
For more information on materials, see
Set Material
and
Remove Material
.
In the Outliner, you can:
The object's material color is displayed as color dots.
The color can be copied by dragging and dropping the color dots.
Material colors can also be set for groups. The color can be copied in the same way.
Right-click on an object to access a menu where you can set or remove materials.
You can also select multiple objects and set or remove materials in bulk.
Toggle Sidebar Visibility
Toggle the visibility of the outliner and window's right sides.
Operation
Shortcut
Command Name
Toggle the display of the left sidebar.
Ctrl + B
or
to the right of the P-Menu
Sidebar: toggle left
Toggle the display of the right sidebar.
Ctrl + Shift + B
or
to the left above View Mode
Sidebar: toggle right
Preferences
Assets