Solid
Fillet Shell
Fillet Shell
Command
Fillet
Shortcut
B
Button
In Suggested Commands Menu
Fillet or chamfer the Edges which can be conic or G2 continuous. Variable distance, limit range are adjustable.
Basic Usage
Select the Edges to fillet or chamfer.
When one or more Edges are selected, the default command,
Fillet
, is automatically executed.
Alternatively, press the shortcut key
B
to excute.
Move the yellow dot to specify the distance of the fillet or chamfer.
Positive movement:  results in a fillet.
Negative movement: results in a chamfer.
Your browser does not support video tags.
Optionally, to select more Edges,
Ctrl
+ click on the Edge. To deselect,
Ctrl
+ click again.
Set the options in the Command Dialog and Keyboard Shortcuts. See
Fillet options
and
Chamfer options
below.
Confirm with OK in the Command Dialog or right-click.
Fillet options
Command Dialog
Distance:
To fillet an Edge, enter a positive value. To chamfer an Edge, enter a negative value
💡
Tip
To copy a fillet radius, click on the source fillet, but only if the two Distance values are the same and the shape is a Conic.
Your browser does not support video tags.
Shape:
Conic:
The Conic fillet option is known for producing a more natural and smooth transition compared to traditional round fillets. This makes it especially useful in applications where aerodynamics or aesthetics are crucial.
Chordal:
The hallmark of a Chordal fillet is that it maintains a constant length for the chord of the fillet, regardless of the angles being filleted. This uniformity can be particularly beneficial when aiming for visual consistency across different parts of a model.
G2:
The G2 option generates curves that are smoothly continuous with the surfaces at both ends of the fillet. This setting is optimal for intricate designs and complex surface handling that require an extremely smooth and natural shape transition. See
Surface Continuity
.
Full:
The full option will create a rounded fillet shape on either side of a face with 2 edges selected. The operation differs from a regular clamping effect when filleting. The round fillet is a surface that is tangential to all 3 neighbouring faces (left, centre, and right faces) and thus will result in generating perfect round fillet depending on the diameter or distance of neighbouring faces and edges.
Your browser does not support video tags.
Y-Blend:
The “Y-blend” is a special kind of blend or fillet that occurs when three surfaces meet at a common point, forming a “Y” shape. Enabling
Attempt
, you can create better topology  in Y-blend and avoid undesired fillet results.
Your browser does not support video tags.
Selection:
Disable
Add tangent Edges
to limit fillets to selected Edges only.
Shortcut
T
is acceptable.
Your browser does not support video tags.
Shortcuts
A
: Chamfer angle
Specify fillet angle by moving the cursor.
💡
Also, changing the two values of distance changes the angle.
Your browser does not support video tags.
D
: Fillet distance
Specify Fillet distance by moving the cursor.
C
: Chamfer distance
Specify Chamfer distance by moving the cursor.
V
: Add variable point
Add a variable point to the fillet.
Your browser does not support video tags.
L
: Add limit (stop) point
Specify the range to fillet. Make sure that
Object Snaps
are enabled, Click on the center line of fillet to add a limit point. To reverse the direction, click on the limit point again. Up to two limit points can be set.
Your browser does not support video tags.
Chamfer options
Shape:
Offset:
Default chamfer.
Apex:
Reduce the displacement of the border of the chamfer surface.
Others are the same as fillet options.
See also
Fillet
Fillet Curve
Fillet Vertex
Refillet Face
Remove Fillets from Shell
Fillet
Find Boundary Edges