Plasticity Essentials
Export OBJ
Export OBJ
Select the Solid or Sheet you want to export.
If nothing is selected, all displayed Solids and Sheets will be exported.
Click
P-Menu
>
Export/Save as...
.
A save-as dialog box will appear.
Enter the file name.
Select
Wavefront OBJ (*.obj)
as the file type.
The Export OBJ dialog box will appear.
Configure the options.
Option
Overview
Detail
Recommended Value
Topology
The shape of the polygons to be converted
Tris (only triangular polygons)
Quads (quadrangular and triangular polygons)
Ngons (polygons with multiple sides, quadrangular, triangular polygons)
Density
This is the only value that automatically sets other values, so it's easy to achieve good results with this value alone.
Lower the value: fewer polygons, rough shape conversion.
Increase the value: more polygons, detailed shape conversion.
Min width
Minimum Size
Specify the minimum size of the polygons.
To avoid congestion of small polygons, such as minute fillets, increase this value.
Max width
Maximum Size
Specify the maximum size of the polygons.
To avoid extremely long or large polygons, decrease this value.
To make the size of the polygons more uniform, decrease this value.
Surface plane tolerance
Maximum Allowable Deviation
(in cm)
Specify the accuracy of the conversion.
Lower the value: more polygons, detailed shape conversion.
Increase the value: fewer polygons, rough shape conversion.
Although less intuitive than Max width, this is one of the most common ways to increase or decrease the number of polygons.
A suitable value for low poly is 0.01, and for high poly is 0.0001.
If you want to use a value smaller than 0.001, it may be better to decrease the Max width.
Surface angle tolerance
Maximum Allowable Angular Deviation
(in radians)
Specify the accuracy of the surface conversion.
Lower the value: the  Curved surface is converted faithfully, and the number of polygons increases.
Increase the value: the  Curved surface is converted roughly, and the number of polygons decreases.
This can be thought of as the minimum number of segments, or elements, per circle or cylinder.
A suitable value is 0.35 (for low poly) to 0.15 (for high poly).
Curve plane tolerance
Maximum Allowable Deviation of Edge
(in cm)
Specify the accuracy of the conversion of the Edges and Face boundaries.
This is similar to Surface plane tolerance, but affects the conversion of Edges and Face boundaries more than the center of the Face.
Curve angle tolerance
Maximum Allowable Angular Deviation of Edge
(in radians)
Specify the accuracy of the conversion of the Edges of curved surfaces (boundaries of the Face).
This is similar to Surface angle tolerance, but affects the conversion of Edges (boundaries of the Face) more than the center of the Face.
A suitable value is 0.35 (for low poly) to 0.15 (for high poly).
Curve max length
Maximum Allowable Length of Curve (Edge) Segment
Plane angle
Maximum Allowable Ratio between Plane Tolerance and Max Width
Useful for obtaining more quadrangles or polygons.
Inflect
Preserve surface quality
Add additional detail in areas where curved surfaces transition from convex to concave.
Click OK.
The OBJ file is exported.
Importing Reference Images
Sketching & Primitive Tools