Sketch
Create Curve Instance
Create Curve Instance
Command
Create Instance
Shortcut
-
Button
In Command Palette
Create reusable duplicates of curves. An
instance
, similarly to instancing solid and sheet objects, stores transformation data (position, pivot point, rotation, and scale), color data and references the original curve. Any modification made to the master curve is instantly reflected in all of its instances.
Because curve instances are read-only copies of their source, they can't be edited independently. They also hide the CV (control-vertex) layout, which makes them visually distinct from the original curve.
💡
Use the
Create Instance
command on curves when you need many identical details such as consistent, symmetrical sketches for building a vehicle's construction framework or related products.
Instances work with array commands such as
Curve Array
,
Radial Array
, and
Rectangular Array
.
Instances can also be used with the
Mirror
command, enabling live symmetry where changes to the master geometry updates all mirrored instances automatically.
Cannot use
Place
and
Copy with Placement
commands on created instances for now.
Basic Usage
Select the Curve you want to use as the parent object..
Open the Command Palette, type ** Create Instance**, and execute the command.
Move the newly created instance to the desired location.
Confirm with OK in the Command Dialog or right-click.
Your browser does not support video tags.
🗒️
Note:
Once an instance has been created, you can duplicate that instance any number of times, and all of the duplicates will continue to reflect any changes made to the original parent object.
Instance Groups
The process of instancing groups is similar to instancing Curves.
When a group is selected and it contains primary sketches, an instance of the group will be created and placed outside of the group folder under its own dedicated category in the Outliner.
Number
Description
1
Main group with components inside.
2
Parent objects that will be instanced.
3
Instance of main group allocated outside of the main group under the category
"Instances"
.
Basic Usage
Select a Group in the Outliner to instantiate.
Search for
Create Instance
in the Command Palette and execute it.
Move the instanced group.
Confirm with OK in the Command Dialog or right-click.
Your browser does not support video tags.
See also
Create Solid and Sheet Instance
Convert Vertex
Create Instance